Game starts. Game characters and NPC alike arrive to the game developer to
hear the story of the game.

Game dev with shiny demo effects around him:
"I am the coolest programmer ever! I write the most optimized and
clever code!"

Game character: "But... what about us? What is the story of this game?"

Game dev, blank background: "Uhmm.........." (demo fx reappear) "I WRITE
THE MOST OPTIMIZED, THE MOST MODULAR AND AWESOME CODE! MY CODE IS UNMATCHED
IN PORTABILITY AND FUNCTION! I--"

(game cuts to game character leaving the room, closing the door)

Game character: *sigh* "Alright, there is no story. So I'll just make one up
to get things started" *ahem* "There once was a master programmer with
incredible programming skills. But he also had an incredible ego and was an
incredible perfectionist. So he spent his life writing incredibly optimized
and clever useless code. Then one day he ate too many nachos and had a heart
attack. The end."

Character in the crowd: "Oh, come on, that's just mean."

Game character: "Okay... okay... fine. And so he spent his life writing
incredible useless code. He created whole OSes but cared not for the users
who would run it. He created whole game worlds but cared not for the inhabitants.
So he lives to this day making... well, nothing of significance."

Game character: "Since the creator of this game doesn't seem to care about us, or
the story, we're all on our own. So let's go make our own mini games so that
we can salvage this game's playability and make it somewhat entertaining, at
least. I made a 3D maze-like overworld that connects them together so that
the poor user playing this game can get around. Alright, let's start!"

*screen fades to black*

*construction and hammering noises*

*game starts in 3D maze*

--------------------

"Craption 52" mini game (by Mr. Wooo Sorcerer himself)

- An obvious ripoff of Action 52
- Intro screen will use a loop of the "Whoo! Yeah!" from the NES cartridge and
  the "make your selection now" clip.
- Title screen will be deliberately made to look like a Microsoft Paint
  abomination (meaning the rudimentary paint program seen in Windows 3.1
  through XP) with some fancy font used to type the title. Mr. Woo sorcerer
  will be drawn as if by some nerd who thinks of himself as a powerful
  wizard or something (glowy eyes, lightning from hands, staff of power, etc.)
- Jokes about woo: "Stereo Sound" and "Expanded Continuous Sound" (this being
  a reference to some Windows 3.1 games seen on Shovelware Diggers). The
  credits screen could have that ever-classic over-used 90s Photoshop "Lens
  flare" effect on it (wonder why nobody uses that one anymore, hm?)
- Sound effects in the game will be common audio clips ripped from other
  DOS games, movie clips, i.e. the state of sound effects in the early
  1990s when it was new and novel (wooo!). They will be played as often
  as possible as part of the joke about "Expanded Continuous Sound" and some
  games will be made loud and obnoxious like the DOS port of Llamatron
  (because wooo digitized sound).
- Like Action 52, it will be made of shitty art resources as 2D topdown
  shooter or tank games that are obvious copy paste versions of each other
  and (intentionally made) glitches.

--------------------

A "pipe dream" clone using 640x480 VGA 16-color mode.

- The game could offer 3 modes:
  - Water world (same as basic game, with water)
  - Nuclear reactor leak (same basic game, but you're routing a reactor leak,
    "fluid" is glowing green stuff. VGA palette could animate that color to
    make the green "pulsate" like it's radioactive)
  - Shit happens (shown with a poop emoji followed by "it happens"). Various
    people visit an outhouse and fill a meter. When it's full, the "brown
    stuff" begins flowing, otherwise same basic game.
- Same idea as "pipe dream": You have a random assortment of pipe parts and
  you have to assemble a path for the fluid to flow far enough to lose
  pressure or (bonus points) into a drain.

--------------------

Undecided third game.

- ???

--------------------

Intended runtime environment: 16-bit real mode DOS. With support for
EMM386.EXE and HIMEM.SYS for some extra storage (but don't get carried away
like Project 16). Each mini-game could run as a separate executable that
talks to the main game executable (for memory reasons) and use their own
video mode and routines or the parent game EXE's video code.

EGA/VGA graphics, of course. 16-color, 256-color. Maybe even something
that uses VESA BIOS extensions to get SVGA 256-color modes. Maybe CGA.
The game will require VGA though.

386 or higher. 540K conventional memory minimum, to allow it to run on a
typical DOS setup.

Could later versions of the game pack the sub-EXEs into the game EXE and
run them from within, "Second Reality" style with INT 21h interception to
present the EXE contents as if a local filesystem? Obviously not in time
for the game jam, of course.

Sound Blaster and Adlib support, of course!

--------------------

Craption 52 ideas:

* DONKEY.BAS... IN SPAAAAAAAACE!

  Bill Gates returning from a meeting on the S. S. Microsoft
  must guide his rocket through sector 80286 that has been invaded
  by space donkeys. Gameplay of course inspired by DONKEY.BAS.

  Ship must dodge various donkeys. Sprite images could vary between
  a few generic donkeys, the donkey from Shrek, and (as a visual
  pun) disembodied buttocks with a 1 in 100 random chance. If that
  doesn't make sense, consider that in English "ass" is both a term
  for a donkey as well as the buttocks.

* Office Space

  Oh no, another space shooter! This time with random sprites of
  things you'd find in an office supply store including erasers,
  usb pen drives, rubber bands, pens, etc. you must fight your
  way to the end to battle The Great Stapler.

  TODO: So what office implement are you the player? It has to be
        something intentionally dumb and nonsensical of course.

  Level start: Play a clip from "Office Space" of that guy saying
               "I believe you have my stapler..."

  Note: Inspired of course by the part of AVGN's review describing
        a space shooter with safety pins, baby things, etc.

* Smiley wars

  At random, a shot (either way) could turn the target into a pile
  of poo. If it's *you*, the game could say "YOU LOSE! HAVE A CRAPPY
  DAY!". Otherwise just "YOU LOSE" "YOU WIN" "TIE!"

* The Cheetoman (parody of the Cheetahmen)

  The Cheetoman (Donald Trump) must fight his way through a level
  that looks a lot like the level design of the Cheetahmen in
  Action 52, complete with bad level design, bad weapons, and
  random sprites from other games randomly appearing.

  You know... Cheetoman. Because "Orange Man Bad" right? XD
  A stupid pun for laughs, of course, not to promote or
  discourage anything.

  User will have a path to success if desired, or plenty of deadly
  spike traps and such if also desired. Either way, have fun :)

